Ankylosaurus, the "Fused Lizard,"
is a dinosaur that all tanks could 
take some notes from. At about six 
meters long and over one meter tall,
the ankylosaurus put every part of
its hefty body to work in protecting
itself. Its armor consisted of 
massive knobs and boney plates
embedded in the skin called
osteoderms. These osteoderms were 
light and sturdy, and they were
highly resistant to penetrative 
objects like the teeth of predators.
When it felt threatened, it employed 
its powerful tail club against other 
dinosaurs, oscillating its tail in
a hundred-degree motion. The
placement of the club at the end of 
the tail adds to its inertia, 
causing massive damage to opponents.

The ankylosaurus lived in North
America during the late Cretaceous 
Period alongside fierce predators
and competition. Its incredible 
defense mechanisms protected it 
against massive carnivores like 
tyrannosaurus. It occupied a similar 
niche to herbivores like tricera-
tops, but it likely did not vie for 
resources with the other species of 
ankylosaurid that lived in the 
region. Its wide mouth allowed the 
ankylosaurus to feed on a variety 
of low vegetation, and as the 
largest known ankylosaurid, the
amount of food that passed through
its large digestive system would
have been immense.
