Brachiosaurus, the "Arm Lizard," is
recognized as a marvel of the 
prehistoric world because of the 
amazing heights these mysterious
dinosaurs reached during their long 
reign on Earth. With a maximum 
height of seven meters and length of 
twenty-six meters, the brachiosaurus
loomed over other dinosaurs of its 
time. Like most sauropods, its size 
acted as a safeguard against the 
appetites of contemporary predators 
like allosaurus; only young, old,
and sick brachiosaurus were 
susceptible to attack. Unlike many
other sauropods, the neck of
brachiosaurus was straight and
upward-facing due to the incline of
its back. This gave it its height,
which allowed it to browse the 
highest foliage, something other 
herbivores couldn't take advantage
of.

As a rare Jurassic sauropod in 
North America's Morrison Formation,
brachiosaurus enjoyed existence
along with other sauropods and
famous creatures like the
stegosaurus. It roamed across North 
America and perhaps Africa in 
semiarid environments with much 
vegetation to sustain its massive
body. For a time, brachiosaurus was 
considered the largest of the 
dinosaurs, but argentinosaurus took 
the title away from the popular
brachiosaurus.
