Phorusrhacos, the "Rag-Thief" or
"Wrinkle Bearer," is a "terror bird"
that is only known from partial
fossils. Its approximate size is
estimated to be two and a half 
meters tall, since with only
fragmentary evidence its size cannot
be said for certain. The meaning of 
its name describes the "wrinkled" 
curve of its lower jaw. Like other 
terror birds, it had a massive
hooked beak that was built for 
consuming meat. How it hunted is
unknown, but it almost certainly
feasted on small mammals. It may 
have used its beak or sharp claws
to deal blows on their unfortunate
prey.

During the start of its reign in
Miocene Argentina, phorusrhacos was
likely near the top of the food 
chain. It ruled grasslands and
forests, stalking around in the 
search for food. However, once the 
land bridge between North and South 
America formed, big cats stole its 
crown and usurped it as king. After 
the big cats came into the picture, 
terror birds were likely forced to 
become scavengers. 
