Sarcosuchus, the "Flesh Crocodile,"
puts the modern saltwater crocodile
to shame. At an unbelievable twelve
meters long, sarcosuchus was likely 
the largest crocodile to ever live.
It achieved this immense size by
growing rapidly, spending less time
as a vulnerable smallfry. It had a 
very toothy grin, with 131 teeth per
animal and no doubt had a wicked 
offensive system. For defense, 
sarcosuchus' back was adorned with a 
complete covering of osteoderms. 
This kept it protected while it 
floated on the surface of the water 
in search of food. If its land-
living prey decided to fight back 
against this wide maw of certain 
death, the osteoderms would without 
doubt have deflected it.

Living in the Cretaceous freshwater 
tropical paradise that is now the 
Sahara Desert, sarcosuchus had a 
veritable buffet set out before it. 
Among the most common species that 
it coexisted with were iguanodontids 
and species of coelacanth, which
would have often been on the menu. 
However, it has been suggested that
sarcosuchus could not death roll
like modern crocodylians can, so
how it ate is still a mystery. It's
safe to say, though, that no matter
how this creature ate, you would 
not want to find yourself face-to-
teeth with it.
