Spinosaurus, the "Spine Lizard," is 
the subject of a heated debate in 
the scientific community. One thing
that is not debated, though, is the
shear size of the monstrosity - with
a length of over fifteen meters and
a sail height of over one and a half
meters, spinosaurus was quite 
possibly the biggest terrestrial
carnivore to ever live. Prior to 
2014, spinosaurus was thought to 
have a fairly normal theropod body 
style, with its body resting on top
of long legs. However, a 2014 study
claimed that spinosaurus had short 
hind legs and walked on all fours. 
This quadrupedal model set the 
paleontology world reeling. While 
some scientists and fans accept this 
new model, most people are not ready
to accept such a drastic revision 
based on the new specimen. 

Despite the controversy over its 
anatomy, there is still much that 
scientists agree on. Spinosaurus 
lived during the Cretaceous Period 
in what is now Northern Africa. Its
environment was very wet, and it 
spent a great deal of time in the 
water. A proficient hunter, 
spinosaurus posed a huge threat to 
every creature that dared to near 
it. Its dangerous jaws, over a meter
long, could handle all manners of 
prey. It also was likely very 
opportunistic, never passing up the 
chance for an easy catch or 
scavenged carcass.
