Titanis, the "Titan," was named for
giant Greek gods that preceded the 
Olympians; a fitting title for a
bird this immense. Titanis stood at
approximately a meter and a half
tall, shorter than other "terror
birds" like its relative Phorus-
rhacos. However, despite its small
stature, Titanis was more heavily
built, with a shorter but thicker
neck. It was made for speed; its two
long, muscular legs more than made 
up for the fact that it was 
completely flightless. In fact, it 
had the smallest wings of any 
phorusrhacid, but that didn't stop
it from being a fearsome predator.

Titanis lived in North America for 
over three million years, lasting 
from the Blancan to the Gelasian 
stage of the Pleistocene Epoch. It 
is the only known terror bird to 
leave South America, migrating north
to roam the plains of North America.
Likely a carnivore, Titanis was 
always in search of prey. It was a 
devastating hunter; some experts 
theorize that it used its powerful
head to smash small prey on the 
ground until they died, similar to 
how seriemas kill their prey. For 
larger prey, it's axe-like beak had
the potential to viciously rip apart
chunks of flesh.
